README.md, before:

# db-to-ynab-golang

An API based sync from Deutsche Bank accounts to You Need a Budget.

![Go](https://github.com/ohthehugemanatee/db-to-ynab-golang/workflows/Go/badge.svg?branch=master)

This application is still in active development (see #todo, below), but already works perfectly well for home use. Please submit issues as you find them!

## To run

It is intended to run a separate instance for each account you want to sync. You can (and should!) re-use the same `DB_CLIENT_ID` and `DB_CLIENT_SECRET` for all of your own instances. Use a cronjob or similar to touch the endpoint for every sync operation (I suggest twice a day). I do not recommend using this to sync anyone else's accounts.

Set environment variables:

```
DB_CLIENT_ID
DB_CLIENT_SECRET
DB_ACCOUNT
YNAB_SECRET
YNAB_BUDGET_ID
YNAB_ACCOUNT_ID
```

You have to create an App at [developer.db.com](https://developer.db.com) to get the DB client ID and secret. Note that there is a slow (~2 weeks!) process for approval to get access to real live bank data. `DB_ACCOUNT` is either the IBAN of a cash account, or the last 4 digits of a credit card number.

[Create a YNAB personal access token](https://api.youneedabudget.com/#personal-access-tokens) to use as your YNAB secret. The budget and account IDs are UUIDs you can get from the URL of the target account. For example, when viewing your account the URL may be `https://app.youneedabudget.com/ba1f67f1-5fba-4314-b4a3-94256409ff57/accounts/822de6c0-6967-4ad3-d4cf-f227dd58a7f9`. In that case the Budget ID is `ba1f67f1-5fba-4314-b4a3-94256409ff57`, and the account ID is `822de6c0-6967-4ad3-d4cf-f227dd58a7f9`.

With those env vars set, run the application. With a web browser, visit port `3000` wherever it's running - likely `http://localhost:3000`. On your first visit it will redirect you to the DB authentication page, where you must sign into your account. On all subsequent visits, it will simply sync.

NB:

* on the DB app you create, the redirect should be the accessible (to you) URL of the running application, with path `/authorized`. For example, `http://localhost:3000/authorized`.
* The token received from DB is good for a month, updated each time you run the sync. So as long as you're sync'ing more than once a month, you should only have to manually enter credentials the first time. 
* The token is kept in memory only; when you restart the application you will need to authenticate again.
* This application will duplicate transactions imported through other methods, eg CSV import or other tools.

## To Develop

This project is configured with [a dev container for VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers). If you have VSCode with the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers), your IDE will prompt you to open in the container. That should have everything you need to get running. You can set the required environment variables in a local `.devcontainer/.env` file.

Issues and PRs are welcome!

## Current status

### Working

* Sync cash accounts (checking, savings). It syncs the last 100 transactions every time you run it. No, you will not get duplicate transactions from these repeats. 
* Sync credit cards. It syncs the last 30 days of transactions every time you run it.

### TODO

* refactor a bit for clarity.
* refactor tests for clarity
* include dockerfile in the repo
* build/publish on Docker hub as a GH action
* sync upcoming transactions which haven't posted yet.

Commit message:

Update readme with warnings about DB sandbox

README.md, after:

# db-to-ynab-golang

An API based sync from Deutsche Bank accounts to You Need a Budget.

![Go](https://github.com/ohthehugemanatee/db-to-ynab-golang/workflows/Go/badge.svg?branch=master)

This application is still in active development (see #todo, below), but already works perfectly well for home use. Please submit issues as you find them!

## To run

It is intended to run a separate instance for each account you want to sync. You can (and should!) re-use the same `DB_CLIENT_ID` and `DB_CLIENT_SECRET` for all of your own instances. Use a cronjob or similar to touch the endpoint for every sync operation (I suggest twice a day). I do not recommend using this to sync anyone else's accounts.

Set environment variables:

```
DB_CLIENT_ID
DB_CLIENT_SECRET
DB_ACCOUNT
YNAB_SECRET
YNAB_BUDGET_ID
YNAB_ACCOUNT_ID
```

You have to create an App at [developer.db.com](https://developer.db.com) to get the DB client ID and secret. Note that there is a slow (~2 weeks!) process for approval to get access to real live bank data. `DB_ACCOUNT` is either the IBAN of a cash account, or the last 4 digits of a credit card number.

[Create a YNAB personal access token](https://api.youneedabudget.com/#personal-access-tokens) to use as your YNAB secret. The budget and account IDs are UUIDs you can get from the URL of the target account. For example, when viewing your account the URL may be `https://app.youneedabudget.com/ba1f67f1-5fba-4314-b4a3-94256409ff57/accounts/822de6c0-6967-4ad3-d4cf-f227dd58a7f9`. In that case the Budget ID is `ba1f67f1-5fba-4314-b4a3-94256409ff57`, and the account ID is `822de6c0-6967-4ad3-d4cf-f227dd58a7f9`.

With those env vars set, run the application. With a web browser, visit port `3000` wherever it's running - likely `http://localhost:3000`. On your first visit it will redirect you to the DB authentication page, where you must sign into your account. On all subsequent visits, it will simply sync.

NB:

* on the DB app you create, the redirect should be the accessible (to you) URL of the running application, with path `/authorized`. For example, `http://localhost:3000/authorized`.
* The token received from DB is good for a month, updated each time you run the sync. So as long as you're sync'ing more than once a month, you should only have to manually enter credentials the first time. 
* The token is kept in memory only; when you restart the application you will need to authenticate again.
* This application will duplicate transactions imported through other methods, eg CSV import or other tools.

## To Develop

This project is configured with [a dev container for VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/containers). If you have VSCode with the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers), your IDE will prompt you to open in the container. That should have everything you need to get running. You can set the required environment variables in a local `.devcontainer/.env` file.

Issues and PRs are welcome!

### Gotchas in DB sandbox

If you start a new API app with DB, you are confined to a sandbox of test accounts/data until your app has been approved. Everything works as expected, except:

* The sandbox test users have invalid IBAN numbers. So you cannot test cash accounts
* The sandbox test users only have credit card transactions up until 2017. So you cannot test credit card accounts.

I have notified DB about these issues, but if you're helping out you deserve to know, too!

## Current status

### Working

* Sync cash accounts (checking, savings). It syncs the last 100 transactions every time you run it. No, you will not get duplicate transactions from these repeats. 
* Sync credit cards. It syncs the last 30 days of transactions every time you run it.

### TODO

* refactor a bit for clarity.
* refactor tests for clarity
* include dockerfile in the repo
* build/publish on Docker hub as a GH action
* sync upcoming transactions which haven't posted yet.
